.. OpihiExarata documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Dec  9 13:40:06 2021.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

==========================
OpihiExarata Documentation
==========================

OpihiExarata is a group of individual software packages, API services, and 
executables designed to process data from the IRTF Opihi telescope. It serves 
to be an astrometric solver, photometric calibrator, asteroid finder, 
ephemeris computer, and astrometric monitor. We accomplish this by integrating 
services and open source software collections.

This software is specific to the IRTF Opihi telescope. 

.. note::
    This documentation comes in two forms, a set of HTML webpages and a LaTeX 
    document. The HTML is given preference when formatting issues arise between 
    the two. We highly suggest that you read the 
    `HTML version <https://psmd-iberutaru.github.io/OpihiExarata>`_ as it is 
    better formatted, easier to navigate, and more likely to be up to date.


.. _home-user-manual:

User Manual
===========

The user manual is primarily for general users, such as telescope operators and 
observing astronomers. It details how to use OpihiExarata in conjunction with 
the Opihi telescope, primarily covering the usage of its GUI and command-line 
interfaces. It can be accessed via the sidebar or by clicking 
:doc:`here <./user/index>`.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :hidden:
    :caption: User Manual

    user/index


.. _home-technical-manual:

Technical Manual
================

The technical manual is primarily for software maintainers and other IRTF 
staff. (For general use purposes, see the :ref:`home-user-manual`).
It details the overall architectural design and thought process of the 
OpihiExarata software in much greater detail to assist in development. (For
function and class documentation of the raw API itself, see the 
:ref:`home-technical-manual`.) It can be accessed via the sidebar or by 
clicking :doc:`here <./technical/index>`.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :hidden:
    :caption: Technical Manual

    technical/index


.. _home-code-manual:

Code Manual
===========

The code manual is primarily for software maintainers and other IRTF staff. It 
details the software API documentation of OpihiExarata and its inner workings.
Unlike the :ref:`home-technical-manual`, this does not detail
any of the design principles of the software but instead is the function and 
class documentation of the software (generated by Sphinx).

`Code coverage`_ is available in html. The code manual (and overall 
documentation) is generated via Sphinx and the code coverage is generated by 
a different tool. As such, it is manually linked rather than integrated.

.. _Code coverage: https://psmd-iberutaru.github.io/OpihiExarata/build/html/code/coverage/index.html

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :hidden: 
    :caption: Code Manual

    code/modules


* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`